test/README.md, before:

# SQL Logic Tests
We have a set of `.slt` files that represent our SQL Logic Tests. You can run them against Snowflake or Embucket.

# SLT Runner
1. Copy `.env_example` inside `slt_runner` folder file and rename it to `.env` file.
2. Set up a connection
   1. Snowflake - replace Snowflake credentials in `.env` file from `test` to your credentials.
   2. Embucket - launch Embucket locally, set `ICEBUCKET_ENABLED=true` in `.env` file, make sure connection parameters match Embucket launch parameters (if you have default settings, you don't need to change anything).
3. Install requirements
``` bash
pip install -r slt_runner/requirements.txt
```
4. Run SLTs
``` bash
python -m slt_runner --test-file sql/sql-reference-commands/Query_syntax/select.slt
```
5. Parallel SLTs Execution
- Run each test file in a separate process:
   ```
   python -m slt_runner --test-dir sql --parallel
   ```
- Specify the number of parallel workers (defaults to number of CPUs):
   ```
  python -m slt_runner --test-dir sql --parallel --workers 4
   ```
You will see the `errors.log` and `test_statistics.csv` files generated. They contain errors and coverage statistics.
You can also visualize statistics using the `slt_runner/visualise_statistics.py` script.
You can also run all the tests in the folder using:
``` bash
python -m slt_runner --test-dir sql
```

Commit message:

feat: enhance CI workflow to include SLT tests and update README with… (#872)
* feat: enhance CI workflow to include SLT tests and update README with results

* test commit

* test

* fix: separated SLT run job

* fix: change SLT test directory path in CI workflow

* fix: update SLT test directory path in CI workflow

* fix: update CI workflow to run embucketd directly

* fix: update SLT test directory and increase sleep duration in CI workflow

* testing

* testing

* testing

* testing

* testing

* testing

* Update README with latest test results

* testing

* Update README with latest test results

* testing

* Update README with latest test results

* testing

* testing

* Update README with latest test results

* testing full CI/CD job

* testing parallel runs

* testing parallel runs

* testing parallel runs

* testing parallel runs

* testing parallel runs

* testing parallel runs

* testing parallel runs

* test

* test

* should work

* Update README with latest test results

* Update README with latest test results

* WIP

* "Update workflow triggers and concurrency settings"

* "Remove pull_request triggers and update asset generation logic"

* Simplify test-assets branch creation and push process.

* upd

* Update workflow to use 'assets' branch instead of 'test-assets'

* "Fix asset copy process by using a temporary directory"

* "Add write permissions to SQL Logic Tests workflow"

* Update README links to use fixed repository URLs

* "Switch to dynamic bronze color with opacity for coverage badge"

* Enable unit tests and update SQL logic test directory

* Update workflow to trigger on main branch instead of test-main

* rollback most of unnecessary changes to test workflow

* Remove obsolete test asset images

---------

Co-authored-by: andheroe <freefunning@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

test/README.md, after:

[![SQL Logic Test Coverage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Embucket/embucket/assets/assets/badge.svg)](test/README.md)

## SLT coverage
![Test Coverage Visualization](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Embucket/embucket/assets/assets/test_coverage_visualization.png)
*This visualization is automatically updated by CI/CD when tests are run.*

# SQL Logic Tests
We have a set of `.slt` files that represent our SQL Logic Tests. You can run them against Snowflake or Embucket.

# SLT Runner
1. Copy `.env_example` inside `slt_runner` folder file and rename it to `.env` file.
2. Set up a connection
   1. Snowflake - replace Snowflake credentials in `.env` file from `test` to your credentials.
   2. Embucket - launch Embucket locally, set `ICEBUCKET_ENABLED=true` in `.env` file, make sure connection parameters match Embucket launch parameters (if you have default settings, you don't need to change anything).
3. Install requirements
``` bash
pip install -r slt_runner/requirements.txt
```
4. Run SLTs
``` bash
python -m slt_runner --test-file sql/sql-reference-commands/Query_syntax/select.slt
```
5. Parallel SLTs Execution
- Run each test file in a separate process:
   ```
   python -m slt_runner --test-dir sql --parallel
   ```
- Specify the number of parallel workers (defaults to number of CPUs):
   ```
  python -m slt_runner --test-dir sql --parallel --workers 4
   ```
You will see the `errors.log` and `test_statistics.csv` files generated. They contain errors and coverage statistics.
You can also visualize statistics using the `slt_runner/visualise_statistics.py` script.
You can also run all the tests in the folder using:
``` bash
python -m slt_runner --test-dir sql
```
